- [Instructor] We are now going to build
our service abstraction.
I'm going to encourage you to grab the exercise files
for this video.
I've gone ahead and coated the meat of the business logic
into a few classes,
so we can focus on the IOC portion
of the service abstraction,
which is much more specific to the Spring Framework.
So let's jump into the ID.
Let's start by jumping into source main Java,
our base package, and then business.
We're going to start with the room reservation.
Now room reservation is nothing more than a DTO
that is an amalgamation of the three data entities below,
specifically relating to the view
that we will ultimately build for this web application.
Go ahead and open up Reservation Service.
Now this class, as it's written right now, will not run.
And the reason is, is that we have three attributes
that are never set,
and we're going to talk about different ways
to set these attributes using the Spring Framework.
So, first and foremost,
we need to annotate this class with some form of stereotype
of @Component, so that Spring will recognize this class,
and we're going to do that with the @Service annotation.
Now, the reason I like to use @Service on business services
is that gives me a great place to write
abstract oriented programming
that responds to service and vocations.
And I do this because a lot of my systemic logic,
the technical logic that I have to do around logging
and tracing and recording and auditing,
usually end up in my business layer
in some way, shape or form.
And by using AOP, I can write that code once
and apply it to every one of my service abstractions.
So now let's take a look at these three private attributes.
Now, the first thing that you may be encouraged to do,
because you've seen it somewhere,
is to simply do an @Autowired on each one of these elements.
And that will work.
In reality, doing @Autowired on each of these attributes
works just fine.
In fact, if we ran into our Util right now
and went to our AppStartupEvent
and did the same thing on these two attributes,
and we ran our class,
we would see that we get out a list of room reservations
for a given day.
Seems good, right?
The problem with this is that we have just written code
that is not very easy to test.
There is no way that I can inject a reservation service
into this AppStartupEvent through a mock test.
There is no way that I can inject a room repository
into this reservation service for the exact same reason.
So the next option that you might be tempted to do,
and it is a valid option as well with Spring,
is you might be tempted to simply create
some setters on here.
And if we went through and did a Setter
on each one of these elements,
and then once again, ran our class,
wait a minute, we just set up a Setter on these.
Why is that not working?
The reason it's not working is Spring can construct
this object with no indication
that it needs to also set a dependency.
In order to fix that with center-based injection,
we can do things like auto-wiring our setters.
So if we go ahead and do that
and then run our class once again,
you will see we get data back out.
That's great.
The problem with this is we've now deviated
from good object oriented programming practices.
Let's take a look at the business logic here in this method,
getRoomReservationsForDate.
You will see that we are expecting that when this class
is constructed, we have a room repository.
That makes that a hard requirement
on this classes operation.
By using setters, there is no hard requirement
other than Spring runs it,
and we saw that if we removed Spring from the picture,
this class failed.
There is also nothing in here that says that I can't change
what one of these things are,
and most likely that's not the behavior that we want.
So while auto-wiring attributes or auto-wiring setters
may make sense and may work,
it is not the most correct way to do this.
Now I'm going to show you what that correct way is,
and you've actually seen it already.
And if you don't believe me,
I encourage you to go read some of the Spring contributors
blog articles on this very topic
and the proper way to do injection.
Now, the most proper way to do that
is to make each of these elements final.
We don't want these dependencies to change.
They're all singletons in the IOC container.
We will make them all final,
and then we will very simply create a constructor
that adds all of those in.
Now I can run this class as it is right now,
and I'm going to go ahead and do that.
And everything runs fine.
You may ask why didn't I auto wire this?
Well, let's take a look at how Java works.
Java looks at a class that has a single constructor
as the only constructor.
If you don't put a constructor, you get the default one,
but once you define that first constructor,
you now have the only way to construct this object.
Spring will automatically use it.
Let's say however that we wrote another constructor
on this class, and we only did two of our elements,
and then just so it'll compile,
we will set reservationRepository equal to null.
Now the class itself won't run, but the reality is,
is it's not going to start,
and you'll see that the IDE that I'm using
actually already knows that.
It doesn't have a way to know which constructor to use.
So if I restart this application,
that compiler warning gets ignored
because that's what it is, but you'll see
when we look at the stack trace,
error creating bean with name reservationService
where it's defined,
and it'll tell you, instantiation of bean failed.
And as you keep going through, no default constructor found.
Okay, we don't have a default constructor,
but we just ran it without one a moment ago.
We can solve that in this case by auto-wiring it.
Now, if we start it up once again, it'll run just fine.
So if you need more than one constructor,
you need to define an auto wire.
If you don't define more than one,
you don't need to auto wire the constructor.
Of course you can, nothing will break if we do that.
But at this point,
we have a very valid service that does work for us
and if we jump back to our AppStartupEvents,
we can actually fix this as well,
so that it is good object oriented programming.
We'll make these final and we will create a constructor,
and now everything's good to go.
I do want you to notice that we've got in this class
a DateUtils and that's another class that I wrote for you,
and it's a very simple way of converting
a date format string in the format
of year, year, year, year, month, month, day, day,
to convert that into a Java.util date.
And we're going to use that both for the UI
and the web services, so I went ahead and included that now.
But that's all there really is to know about auto-wiring
and using the IOC container.
It really comes to good programming practices
and make sure that everything is well-defined.